24 January Decisions

Reasons of coup:
-economy, social violence, Iran revolution, deadlock in NGA (Fahri Koruturk's term ended)

After coup: Milli Guvenlik Konseyi (use Turkish word because it is the same as Milli Guvenlik Kurulu)
Bulent Ulusu as Prime Minister
Parties shut down, politicians banned, universities to YOK, increase power of executive, senate shut down, 10% threshold
Islam was seen as a depoliticisation tool.

1983 elections: Nationalist Democratic Party (Turgut Sunalp), Populist Party (Necdet Calp), Motherland Party (Turgut Ozal)

Turgut Ozal victory (Orta Direk propaganda)
ANAP was conservative, traditionalist, nationalist party and it stood for social justice.
ANAP followed a neoliberalist view as in other countries (Thatcher, Bush).
Consumption increased. Tourism cherished. GAP to 10 provinces. FSM bridge. Opening up the economy.
Uncontrolled grow without check and balance started problems after 1985-86. 

Ozal was experienced in private sector. Worked for Sabanci, State Planning Bureau, conservative, appealing to seculars
He invited 'princes' from abroad. He created a religious image. 
Nepotism conspiracies around his family

1984 local elections: SODEP & DYP received a huge vote -> representation crisis. 
HP merged with SODEP -> Sosyal demokrat halkci parti SHP
DSP founded by Rahsan Ecevit. 18 deputies from SHP to represent in NGA. 
MDP dissolved, some to ANAP, some to DYP

With economy going bad in 1987, Ozal wanted to be seen democratic. Referandum for former politicians to be allowed.
50.2% Yes -> Early elections and ANAP's vote down to 36%. Ozal decided to be president because his days were numbered as PM
He made Yildirim Akbulut PM (yes-man), in 1991 Mesut Yilmaz was elected in party.

1991 General Elections: DYP, ANAP, SHP, Welfare Party, DSP. DYP+SHP coalition.

ANAP fell due to: high inflation, nepotism, corruption, Ozal's legacy to poorly talented people, instability (Kurdish problem, 
Ugur Mumcu assasination, Sivas incident, etc)

After 1993, Demirel to presidency, Ciller to PM. Ciller was promising as an academician and secular woman. EU, Custom Union,
military's role increased due to fight with PKK. People's Labour Party and HADEP -> Kurd Parties.

Tansu Ciller failed, 5 April Decisions to fix economy. Strict measures.

1994 local elections: DYP, ANAP, RP (Istanbul, Ankara, big cities). RP was succesful at municipalities. White Desk, air pollution,
women branches,

1995 General Elections: WP, ANAP, DYP, New Democracy Movement (Cem Boyner)

Anayol coalition: Tansu Ciller + Mesut Yilmaz, they didn't get on well.
Refahyol coalition: Erbakan's blackmail against Ciller's corruption

RP showed over religious acts. Task Force West to monitor their behavior.

Susurluk accident in 1997, Mehmet Elkalkmis raised questions. Sedat Bucak refused to talk. Abdullah Catli, Emniyet muduru
1 minute darkness for eternal light -> Orhan Pamuk, Ugur Yucel

Tanks on street after Sincan 

28 February 1997, military asked a lot from Erbakan. 8 year primary school.
He had to resign after a while. 
RP closed in 1998, Erbakan banned for 5 years

Mesut Yilmaz, Bulent Ecevit, Husamettin Cindoruk coalition until 1999. Mesut Yilmaz's mafia connection exposed. 

beginning of 1999 -> Ecevit with independents. Ocalan was captured.
April 1999 elections: DSP, MHP, ANAP. (No CHP)
1999 earthquake

after 2001, Conflict between Ahmet Necdet Sezer and Ecevit because of White Energy invertigation led to economic crisis. 
Kemal Dervis was called in to fix. He was technocrat. Harmony with EU reglations. Banking system.
US loaned money to Turkey in return for renovations (abolishing death penalty)
 
In 2001, Fazilet Party was closed after Merve Kavakci incident. -> two groups renewers (led to AKP), traditionalists (led to Saadet Party - Recai Kutan)

Ecevit's health was bad.
MHP led to early elections in 2002.

45% didn't get to parliament. Genc Party, DYP, ANAP (Cem Uzan 7%), MHP

AKP created excitement. RTE was popular after prison and mayority. Islamist was new sexy (Kanal 7)
First Abdullah Gul, then RTE after removal of his ban.
AKP->soft secular, democratic, conservative, Muslim. Not National Outlook. pro-EU. 
Harmony to Copenhagen Criteria democracy, minority rights, functioning-competitive free-market economy. 
Seculars were worried. Alcohol ban.
They took advantage of good economy after Dervis. Ali Babacan. Capital from abroad. Open economy. 
Healthcare, KOBIs.
9/11 harmed Islam image. Turkey helped fix it.
March 2003, tezkere krizi. US vs Turkey.

In 2004, local elections won by AKP.

In 2007, Abdullah Gul was AKP's candidate for presidency. Cumhuriyet Mitingleri across country after worry of his Islamic background.
367 decision, scandal by Constitutional Court. 
e-memorandum by military created shock. Cemil Cicek responded. increased support to AKP.
Early elections by AKP to increase power. They got 46%. AKP, CHP, MHP. MHP allowed Gul to be president by being present.

October 2007, referandum. President: 7 years, chosen by public, 2 consecutive terms

Success of RP
Increasing role of Islam in Turkish public life.
State repression of religious expression had galvanized Islamist activisim. 
Voter dissatisfaction with the performance of the centrist parties and revelations about government, corruption, cronyism and inefficiency. 
Support from, smaller towns of Central and Eastern Anatolia, but also from major cities from secular left parties. 
Voter base expanded from conservative rural people and small businessmen to include big business owners, young urban professionals, women intellectuals and crossovers from the left.
Image of a modern party rather than a religious party.
Success of local grassroots organizations and women branches.
Support for Kurdish linguistic and cultural rights, protection of the environment and the elimination of social inequality and corruption.

