Turing - Computing Machinery and Intelligence
1-The Imitation Game - Can a machine think?
2-Critique of the New Problem - it is unfair to judge only machines
3-Machines concerned in the Game
4-Digital Computers - discrete machines
5-Universality of Digital Computers
6-Contrary Views on the Main Question
	Theological Objection
	'Heads in the Sand' Objection - They will take over the worl if they think
	Mathematical Objection - Godel's theorem says sth
	The Argument from Consciousness
	Arguments from Various Disabilities - machines will never be able to make one to do X
	Lady Lovelace's Objection - They need an input to think
	Argument from Continuity in the Nervous System - Digital Computer are discrete
	Argument from Informality of Behavior - It is impossible to set rules for everyday life of men
	Argument from Extra-sensory perception
7-Learning Machines

Penrose - Can a Computer Have a Mind?
1-Introduction - Technology, Physics Rules
2-The Turing Test - Turing test's nature, limits, examples
3-Artificial Intelligence - AI examples in history, chatbots, tortoise
4-An AI Approach to Pleasure and Pain - pp-score, anthromorphic resembles (thinking cars, clocks. etc)
5-Strong AI and Chinese Room - Einstein's brain's book
6-Hardware and Software

Searle - Minds, Brains, and Programs
-Strong/weak AI, Hamburger restaurant story 
-Machines may think but programs cannot, examines intentionality-mind relation
Replies:
1-Systems reply: you should think of the mechanism as a whole system
2-Robot reply: add components to imitate live
3-Brain similator reply: water pipes
4-Combination reply: combine first three replies
5-Other minds reply
6-Many mansions reply: technology will advance enough to provide causality of action to programs

Deutsch - Artificial Creativity
-Chatbots (ELIZA, ELBOT), quale/qualia (seeing colors), Hofstadter hoax
-AI field made no progress because we do not know how creativity works. If we understand DNA, we can implement 
artificial evolution.

Winograd - Thinking machines: Can there be? Are we? 
1-Introduction: with the help of bureaucracy, we can improve AI. 
2-Mechanization of rationality
3-The promise of AI
4-The foundations of artificial intelligence
	1-the physical symbol system hypothesis: converting every concept to symbol's (Newell and Simon)
	2-problem-solving, interference, and research: some examples with symbol systems (ADD, BUILDER, etc)
	3-knowledge as a commodity
5-the fundamental problem: there are some issues on the approach taken so far
	1-Gaps of anticipation - patchwork rationalism is erratic
	2-the blindness of representation
	3-restriction of the domain
6-The bureaucracy of mind
7-Alternatives
	1-Emergent intelligence: connectionism, neuron-like machines, evolution
	2-Hermeneutic constructivism: machines understanding beyond what is said
	3-Language machines
8-Conclusion - we distort language while projecting it to machine and projecting back. We can do better by 
including beyond what is said.

Mitchell - Life and Evolution in Computers
1
-What is Life?
-Self-reproduction in computers
-Self-reproduction in DNA
-Von Neumann's Self-reproducing Automation
2
-Genetic Algorithms

Valiant - The Deducible
PAC (Probably Approximatly Correct)
1-Reasoning
3-Challenge of Complexity
4-Challenge of Brittleness
5-Challenge of Semantics
6-Challenge of Grounding
7-Mind's Eye

Wheeler - Cognition in Context: Phenomenology, Situated Robotics and the Frame Problem
-background coping; continuous reciprocal causation (CRC); frame problem; Heidegger; representations; situatedness
-Frame problem: To most AI researchers, the frame problem is the challenge of representing the effects of 
action in logic without having to represent explicitly a large number of intuitively obvious non-effects. 


Anderson - Asimov's 3 laws of robotics and machine metaethics
-Ultimate goal is to create autonomous ethical machines and it presents a number of challenges. 
-A good way to begin can be ethical advisor program.
-Bicentennial man
-Characteristics necessary to have a moral standing
-Kant's arguments about non-human beings show that Asimov's laws are not enough.

Sharkey - Granny and robots: ethical issues in robot care for the elderly
Six concerns:
-Reduction in human contact
-Increase in objectification
-loss of privacy
-loss of personal liberty
-deception
-the circumstances in which elderly should control the robots.






